# Py_Data
This is my first work in the field of Data Sciences with a dataset.
There are three csv files in the repository that are processed and the data of these files is used to perform the whole analysis.

## In an Ice-cream store, customers want to have customizations for their Ice-creams. So, the stores updated the same in their systems and saved the sales records of their stores for three consecutive years. This practice is done for various stores in different regions. As a result data for each store and region is stored for many years. Good analysis of this data can allow the management to make decisions that can help the company maximize profits as well as avoid losses by observing trends in the historical data collected from sales in each store. This data contains various indicators that can be used to determine the performance of the stores by comparing various parameters.
This data shows patterns and trends that can be followed across the years to discover various patterns.  However, looking at this data with the naked eye is tedious and impossible task. This is even more difficult considering that the data is split into various files, each with only a part of the information required. Therefore, an analysis tool is needed to merge the files and generate various summaries that would make it easy to analyze the data. The store therefore decided to implement an analysis system that would collect data from the ordering system, merge in into a useful format and do various analysis. 
The analysis started by looking at the various trends of the ice-cream sales over the years. This was achieved by looking at the mean for every year. A graph of sales mean against the year was plotted to show the trend.  As seen in the graph, there has been a sharp decline in the sales numbers of ice-cream across the years. The biggest slump occurred from 2011 to 2012. Sales numbers tanked by a margin of over 1000 within this one year period. This shows that the store needed to find out what caused the huge decline in sales for those years. It also shows that the trend is in a continuous and therefore, if something is not done, it’s likely to cause major problems for the store.
After the general trend for all the stores, analysis for each year was done for all the stores. Consequently, a graph for all the stores for years 2010, 2011 and 2012 was generated. It was observed that store 13 had the highest sales for 2010 while store 33 had the lowest sales for the same year. The stores with the lowest sales were between 30-40 while those with the highest were between 10 and 20. 
Subsequent sales data for the year 2011 shows that the store 13 still the highest sales. It also revealed that the store had an even higher sales figure for 2011 compared to the year 2010. Stores which had the lowest sales the previous year fell even further during that year. It shows sales were beginning to fall for many of the stores. Even the stores with the highest sales, those between 10 and 20, also experienced a fall in the number of sales as shown in figure 3. The same high selling store had highest sales the following year as the downward trend continued with other stores. This proves the earlier observation that sales were falling each year and this behavior can be observed on the graph.

